# neuralnetwork_PES
This project is an implementation of a neural network to generate a machine-learned potential-energy surface for the photodissociation of formaldehyde.
-The photodissociation of formaldehyde can proceed through two mechanisms, proven experimentally, through a) radical or b) molecular pathways depending on the nature of the potential energy surface and the reaction dynamics involved

-The training data involved is generated by using Psi4 in Python to compute DFT energies on a 14*14 grid with CH and HH distances as PES coordinates using M06-2x/6-31++G basis sets and functionals. The neural network is trained on this grid of DFT data and mean error of the model is computed by recalculating the PES on a 17*17 grid. By tuning hyperparameters of the model, the mean error can be reduced and increasing data set volume.

-The project was inspired by the work on photodissociation of nitrobenzene derivatives as stated in : https://www.researchgate.net/publication/385895885_Machine_Learned_Potential_Enables_Molecular_Dynamics_Simulation_to_Predict_the_Experimental_Branching_Ratios_in_the_NO_Release_Channel_of_Nitroaromatic_Compounds

-In the above paper, the photodissociation is roughly dependent on only two atomic distances, as can be thought of, of the case of formaldehyde dissociation; and since the initial DFT grid calculation was much simpler for the case of formaldehyde; due to limited computational resources, i've conducted the analysis on formaldehyde. 

-Necessary Libraries - Psi4/NumPy/TensorFlow

-Improvements : 1) The hyperparameters and model architecture must be appropriately tuned to ensure appropriate error reduction in the model.
                2) The initial DFT data accuracy can be improved by using coupled-cluster methods and larger basis sets, at the expense of computational time.
                3) GPU acceleration should be employed to increase computational power.

- In one test the lowest MSE obtained was 5.666166543960571e-06 kJ, and could probably be lowered with more trial times and further trials should lower error bound further
  
                


  
